#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Requirements,Featured
= Introduction =
Feature selection is a pattern recognition approach to choose important
variables according to some criteria to distinguish or explain
certain phenomena. There are many genomic and proteomic applications
which rely on feature selection to answer questions such as:
selecting signature genes which are informative about some biological
state, e.g. normal tissues and several types of cancer; or dening a network
of prediction or inference among elements such as genes, proteins,
external stimuli and other elements of interest. In these applications,
a recurrent problem is the lack of samples to perform an adequate estimate
of the joint probabilities between element states. A myriad of
feature selection algorithms and criterion functions are proposed, although
it is dicult to point the best solution in general. The intent of
this work is to provide an open-source multiplataform graphical environment
to apply, test and compare many feature selection approaches
suitable to be used in bioinformatics problems.

= Details =
The source code, java binary (jar file) and documentation are available here.

The source codes are packed in file src-1.26.zip.

The binary file (jar file) and libraries are packed in file dist-1.26.jar.

You need the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) to execute jAGN software.

The JRE is free and is available for different operating systems.

You can run JAR-packaged applications with the Java interpreter.

== The basic command is: ==

java -jar dimreduction.jar

or just double click on dimreduction.jar, if the JRE is visible in your operating system.

Running on the console
If you need to execute a console version with various simulations, you can use the following instructions to execute the jAGN software:

java -jar dimreduction.jar